[Applause]
[Music]
this just means less freedom for us you
gotta get this through your head they're
taking away our freedom they're dividing
us through this mainstream narrative and
then they're conquering us and who are
they that's why I want you to research
and educate yourself who's behind the
curtain with these big banks who's
behind the curtain with these big banks
the elite minority look into the
families behind this look into the
history have you ever had the feeling
that everything you thought you knew
isn't line everything from history
science government thank you money law
economics farming energy production
water treatment health care even
spirituality and who are they
who's behind the curtain with these big
banks the elite minority look into the
families behind this look into the
history beneficial information in all
these areas has been suppressed and
revised in order to keep us enslaved and
dependent upon a corrupt debt based
system we can never pay off the
brainwashing that you are suffering from
now this media propaganda it's just
taking over everybody's psyche basically
and this is exactly what the system
wants this is exactly what they want and
who are they
who's behind the curtain with these big
banks this is June 16 2020 today and in
the last week or so certain quarters the
Internet have been freaking out at the
extent to which vegan impresario and
self-styled diet guru freelee the banana
girl has revealed herself to be
right-wing if not racist if not
anti-semitic in the first 20 minutes of
her new video she uses quite a lot of
coded language what you might call
right-wing dog whistling what you might
call alt right watch words indicating
the extent to which she's not merely
someone who participates in the internet
subculture of conspiracy theories
blaming the government for obesity
blaming the government for people's
addiction to meat and cheese blaming the
government for modern medical science
blaming the government and mass media
advertising for why people believe they
need to use shampoo anyone remember that
and he won't remember when she had a
political crusade against shampoo no
she's someone who has participated in
and she has been numb shall we say
brainwashed by a great many fad
conspiracy theories on the Internet so
it's not completely surprising to learn
that her view of the world has also been
warped by some right-wing racist and
anti-semitic conspiracy theories about
the world before I go into this any
deeper I just want to say this sort of
topic it's shallow and it's deep at the
same time it's fake and it's real at the
same damn time all of this may seem like
a joke to you but keep in mind there
will be at least a few people in the
audience for whom this is their first
time really thinking seriously about
these issues and it's going to be a
turning point I get email from people
like this all the time where they really
start to reconsider what it is they've
taken on faith from personalities in the
internet whom they treated as experts or
at least treated as honest voices in an
ongoing political discourse without
any fact-checking and you probably
established that relationship of trust
with the broadcaster just because they
had a pretty face or a best-selling diet
book or they danced in a appealing way
on tik-tok or whatever is this going on
these days I I get fan mail telling
people but the way in which I've changed
their lives sometimes in some of my
shallowest and stupidest videos because
that's what it took to provoke them to
really reconsider certain assumption
their lives and of course I get fan mail
from people saying that I profoundly
change their lives in some of my videos
that are more overtly and self-evidently
profound in nature but hey guys all the
time the shallow is the body of the
profound investigating something fake
the very fakeness turns out to be a
container that conceals something real
something really worth investigating
really worth reflecting on and this case
of freelee's right-wing and racist
tendencies is no different in the first
20 minutes of her video 20 minutes that
many people skipped over because she
verbally prompts the audience to skip
over she says hey you might want to skip
ahead to the 20 minute mark if you just
want to hear what really has to say
against black lives matter etc so many
people did that in the first 20 minutes
what freely does is present to you in
the audience
her personal conviction that the whole
of modern Western economics is a sham is
a conspiracy operated by a small number
of families shadowy figures what she
calls quote the minority elite close
quote shadowy figures who have been
controlling the banking industry
throughout its whole history she
presents her belief that money itself
fiat currency as you and I know it is a
conspiracy
I'm gonna start this video off with a
quote Henry Ford once said it is well
enough that the people of the nation do
not understand our banking and monetary
system for if they did I believe there
would be a revolution before tomorrow
morning
[Music]
the Federal Reserve was originally
drafted as the outreach bill but when it
came into Congress they recognized
senator al judges name and smelt a rat
the bankers needed better cover they
decided to send two millionaire friends
to carry the bill to quell the
suspicions of Congress and renamed it
the Federal Reserve Act next in a
textbook lesson of the see the bank is
set out to fool the American people
through disinformation in the newspapers
of the day the bank is screened and
protested against a new Federal Reserve
bill it would ruin the banks they
exclaimed the average person read the
protesting articles of the bankers and
thought to themselves if the bank is
hater it must be good and then they
ended up unknowingly supporting a Trojan
horse and with that a small group had
complete monopoly over the issuing and
creation of American money the central
banking model from the Bank of England
and the United States has now been put
in all countries and even consolidated
power in parts of Europe as the European
Central Bank or ECB this unites separate
countries under one economic policy the
only places in the world that don't have
central banks are North Korea Iran and
Cuba in 2000 this list suspiciously
included Afghanistan Iraq and Libya
so in essence it is the central banks
that control our economy and the central
and commercial banking system together
that control all of our money the
difference is central banks can create
money at will while commercial banks
need loans to create money
[Music]
this somewhat bizarre view of the
economy has three types of proponents
neo-nazis white supremacists and small
numbers of right-wing libertarians who
may or may not be racist as individuals
but their worldview isn't necessarily
racist small numbers of right-wing
libertarians who want to go back to the
gold standard and who argue passionately
but not persuasively that somehow the
economy of the United States America was
way better in the 1890s and that even
health care was better in the 1890s
before the federal government got
involved it's a general crackpot
argument against government regulation
of any kind including an opposition to
the government regulation of money so
freely could be an example of someone
who has been drawn into conversations on
reddit Facebook you know the various I
don't know political sub-basement of the
internet where she gradually got
accustomed to this conspiracy theory
view of the economy of the world that
came to regard it as more real than what
you can read in the newspaper as she
says passionately consistently many
times she believes that the mainstream
media are controlled by this conspiracy
or it could be that she does to some
extent actively intentionally and
knowingly participate in white
supremacism anti-semitism neo Nazism or
some kind of right-wing libertarian
ideology I would not put it past her as
somebody who's now been watching and
commenting on freelee's politics for
many years including even her
involvement with Thailand during the
dictatorship there there has never been
any reason to think that freely is
left-wing the fact that she's the type
of person who can convinced herself that
like shampoo is a government conspiracy
or that toothpaste is a government
conspiracy or that everything that's
taught in you know the colleges of
Dietetics and nutrition or the product
of a government conspiracy that kind of
conspiratorial thinking is you know kind
of you know inevitably electively
inherently right
it tends to draw people over to the far
right not to the far left and people who
are now shocked and horrified by hearing
freely talk against black lives matter
in this way can you remember any kind of
contrast from her political past can you
remember her expressing sympathy for
Australia's indigenous people indigenous
people in Canada the United States can
you remember her expressing any interest
in say the politics of Africa can you
remember during her years of living in
Thailand part-time if not full time she
was in Thailand for many months the year
all of them came over ever expressing
any interest in the plight of the poor
and the downtrodden let alone ethnic
minorities migrants refugees you know
there were really many opportunities for
freely to take some kind of moral or
ethical stance on many many different
humanitarian Aleppo issues and she never
once has dipped a toe into any of those
places so yes there always were grounds
to suspect that she was a bit more right
wing than people presumed her to be
simply because she was vegan and
propounded a vegan diet book so the
point is here the conspiracy theory
mindset and her attachment to some
really wild and crazy conspiracy
theories that are quite common among raw
fruitarians I mean note also her
hostility to vaccines would have you
her overall blaming of everything in the
world everything wrong in the world she
already has the mentality of blaming on
the mass media and the government
conspiring together so this next step of
her blaming the bankers and what she
repeatedly indicates to be just a few
families who are behind the banking
system not entirely surprising however
that argument whenever you hear on the
internet for example from vegan John
Rose it's always anti-semitic what she's
doing is playing a game of asking the
audience to fill in the blanks where she
tells you Google around you'll figure
out who I'm talking about you'll figure
out who the few families are who
throughout the whole history of Europe
have controlled the banks who set up
this whole system the
she believes is some kind of conspiracy
to impoverish people and make them chase
debt and so-called fictional money their
whole life she says all this stuff she
uses all of the key terms that again
either have to come from right-wing
libertarian like nutcases
or frankly neo-nazis nobody else engages
in this discourse and why what
ultimately is the point
people like freely including these
libertarians they believe that the
banking system was set up to conceal and
exploit which she goes fictional money
creating money out of nothing now this
is fundamentally an error on her part
where does it come from this
apprehension that what's fundamentally
wrong with the banking system in the
economy leading to the conspiracy theory
of the banks and the government
controlling the mass media to brainwash
you bla bla where does all this come
from imagine that you go to a store and
you buy a bunch of groceries and then
rather than paying in cash the manager
of the grocery store says to you hey do
you want us to add that to your tab this
is much more common in the 1950s or
1960s you've probably seen movies or
sitcoms or somebody at a bar or talks
about paying their tab it's disappeared
from our culture in the 21st century in
part because paying with a credit card
is so much easier but there was a time
when it was common for all kinds of
businesses including grocery stores to
run up a tab to run up a bill for their
customers just using a pencil and piece
of paper they would write down how much
money the customer owed the shop and
then maybe once a month or once every
few months the customer would settle the
bill and pay the money outstanding there
is absolutely no reason to regard this
as a conspiracy or as creating money out
of nothing but the misconception at the
heart of this bizarre and he submitted
conspiracy theory about banks
controlling the world is actually this
crude it's fear and hostility towards
the way in which debt even debt that's
created just by
writing down on a piece of paper that
you will pay me later increases in
effect the amount of money in
circulation so if you got paid by your
job only $1,000 in a month and you were
going to spend $200 on groceries the
fact that the manager of the store is
willing to write down for you they're
willing to run a tab they're willing to
say it's okay you can come back and pay
me later that does mean that you still
have more money in your pocket that you
could go and spend elsewhere now you do
that at your own risk because sooner or
later you have to pay back the grocery
store manager but nevertheless there is
in effect more money in circulation
because of this form of debt even if
it's just debt created with a pencil on
paper millions of people using millions
of credit cards and millions of bank
accounts do in this way multiply over
and over again the amount of money being
spent the amount of money being saved
and some of that money exists in the
form of debt what people like freely are
propounding what she says directly and
in the video she uses short clips from
is that somehow money being exchanged
with debt creates some sort of mass
social hypnosis that enslaves people
into working their whole lives and
otherwise if it wasn't for this vast
conspiracy of banks and debt and credit
cards wouldn't have you that somehow
everyone would have plenty of wealth
poverty wouldn't exist in the world all
poverty all want all hunger is just the
product of this evil conspiracy that a
few families a minority elite are
benefiting from and she then says you go
ahead and google it don't trust the
mainstream media don't trust me through
social you google around and figure out
who it is she's talking about again a
neo-nazi like John Rose plays exactly
the same game people the powers-that-be
who control the media it's obvious
government's lie the official version
can't be trusted
history books are buck look what Henry
Ford did he spent five million dollars
of the money sacrificed his life
sacrificed a lot of money he lost a lot
of business by spending that five
million dollars over a seven-year period
of time
you know what he did he bought a
newspaper refused to take any
advertising he lost money on it now
Henry Ford was a rich man he was the
richest guy back then industrialist
gives a good man kind-hearted man he was
a vegetarian he doubled his workers
wages overnight paid the guy who got the
least more money than his competitors
paid the most gave him a pension plan he
donated 12 million the first year to on
behalf of those and when he found out
the powers-that-be who they were what
you do there may be a few of you in the
audience who are so she assumed as to
object and say no no what freely saying
is just a reasonable theoretical
approach to explaining poverty on planet
Earth
if so ask yourself a few very simple
questions Cambodia under communism why
was it poor poverty in Cambodia during
communism after communism during the war
after the war cannot be explained as the
product of a bankers conspiracy to
hypnotize people into living their lives
with credit cards a whole economy
defined by day none of this makes sense
South Korea after the end of World War
two was that also the result of this
vast conspiracy involving the mainstream
media the banks etc etc how about I
don't know 50% of the continent of
Africa pretty much in any period of time
in history how about the Dark Ages in
Europe I mean how about the vast
majority the United States of America
even in the 17th century or what have
you
most of the world has been poor for most
of its history under all kinds of
various conditions the mystery is
explaining why any society any given
time is not living in poverty poverty
itself does not require a conspiracy
theory to explain oh you can also flip
this around and ask about a modern
decadent society like Australia in the
21st century if you took away everyone's
credit cards would they become richer or
poorer would they have more money to
spend or less if you took away the
ability of people to go into debt to buy
a house
would that help them or hinder them how
is it that eliminating the debt economy
eliminating what's now the normal role
of banks and bankers how is it that
would help the poor rather than hinder
them now it's a coincidence that this
involves African Americans but we have a
really telling historical example in
history United States of America almost
any and every social scientist who's
looked at the question of why blacks are
poorer than white people in the United
States today points to the fact that
white people had better access to debt
the fact that white people could get
bank loans to open a small business the
fact that white people could get a
mortgage to buy a house to Indiana even
in the early days of credit cards the
fact that white people had credit cards
first before black people did if you had
a white person and a black person who
both had a job at a factory in the 1930s
and if they both were paid exactly the
same amount leaving aside the question
whether blacks were paid less if you had
a black person a white person between
1935 and 1965 say they worked the same
factory job every day and they're
exactly the same amount of money
nevertheless the white person was in
effect wealthier because that white
person had the ability to spend more
money going into debt the same kind of
multiplier I explained earlier if you
can just go to the grocery store and buy
groceries without paying for it run up a
tab and pay later you have an effect
more money well yeah there are much more
profound and important forms of debt
than that like hey I don't want to work
in this factory anymore I want to open a
barber shop can I go to a bank and get a
bank loan or even can I just run up debt
on a credit card so between my savings
and the credit card I can start running
this barber shop and then when I retire
from working at the factory I own a
barber shop I have another source of
income
that's where wealth comes from a large
part of the generation of wealth even
pulls debt and by depriving black people
of access that that are giving them far
fewer options it was much harder for
them to buy a house open up etcetera
black people were disadvantaged for
generations and generations right
freelee the banana girl's theory
is voice on the internet by many
crackpots and not all of them are racist
but people even with the best of
intentions become part of one of these
internet conspiracy subcultures without
even realizing that's what they're doing
they start to regard really extreme and
easily falsifiable claims for example
from anti-vaxxers people or against
vaccines they start to regard those as
scientific truth and then when they're
confronted with real scientific facts
they dismiss that as being a product of
the media being controlled by a
conspiracy right that's so anti-vaxxers
thing well something similar happened
with freelee the banana girl who
convinced yourself about a whole lot of
really extreme and wacky health claims
and then whenever she saw scientific
facts or reports and newspapers owned
that contradicted those health claims oh
well the contradictory evidence is
produced by a conspiracy that's trying
to keep us down it's not surprising she
took another step into madness
understanding economics and politics in
terms of this vast conspiracy that is at
all times trying to suppress her view of
the world in conclusion if you were to
ask me straight up is freely
anti-semitic my answer is yes
[Music]